Kyle Romero
Director of Software Development

Jersey City, NJ
(281) 857-9006

Highly experienced Director of Software Development with 16 years of experience in IT. Adept at building and managing a successful software development organization utilizing both internal onshore and development partner offshore resources. Skilled at bridging the communication gap between technical and non-technical personnel. Able to balance the leadership, technical, and financial management requirements of being a Director of Software Development. Proponent of servant leadership and continuous improvement. Have been in management since 2017 and was a developer from 2007 to 2017.

PERSONAL INFORMATION
  Address: , Jersey City, NJ, 07311
  Nationality: 
  Driving License: 
  Hobbies: 

SOCIAL PROFILES
  * kgromero.com: https://kgromero.com
  * linkedin.com/in/kyleromero/: https://www.linkedin.com/in/kyleromero/

SKILLS
  Organizational Leadership
  People Management
  System Architecture
  Software Development
  Agile Scrum
  DevOps

WORK EXPERIENCE
  * March 2023 – May 2024
    Director of Software Development at Raymour & Flanigan, Jersey City, NJ (remote)
      Led the Application Development Organization, which handled all internal software development company wide. This role was heavily focused on organizational transformation and modernization, both from a software and process perspective. Fully remote position.

  Leadership
    
      Team Size: 3 Managers (.NET Team, Oracle Team, Integrations Team), 4 Architects, 30 Developers (Primarily internal employees, with a few contractors from development partners).
      Managed Internal Relationships within internal matrixed organization (QA / Product Teams).
      Defined and Executed Organizational Strategy, including 5 year vision.
      Recruited and maintained skilled resources for organization.
      Held weekly 1:1's and annual reviews with Direct Reports and Bi-Annual Skip-Level 1:1's with Indirect Reports.
      Traveled to various Northeast U.S. locations (5% of time)
    
  
  Technical
    
      Largest Initiatives: Order Management Tool Upgrade (UWP App), ERP Migration to NetSuite, WMS Migration to Körber, Omnichannel Sales Experience, 3rd Party Integrations (ChargeAfter, Bringg), Data Domain API and Boomi Standup.
      Acted as Technical Expert on Tech Stack and helped explore and implement new technologies
      Directly Managed Change Control and Release Management Processes
      Worked as SME alongside Architects (direct reports) to define and executive organizational architecture strategy.
      Was On-Call alongside architects on a rotating basis.
    
  
  Financial
    
      Forecasted and Managed Organizational Budget and IT Organization Credit Card
      Managed Invoice Review and Approval Process for Organization.
      Negotiated, Reviewed, and Managed Development Partner (Near-Shore / On-Shore) and Vendor Contracts / Resources
      Worked with Infrastructure Team to monitor and control cloud and on-prem costs
    
  


  * October 2017 – March 2023
    Director of Operations Technologies at MEARS Group, Jersey City, NJ (remote)
      Managed the Operations Technology Organization, which delivered internally developed software solutions for field operations employees, with an emphasis on digital transformation and field capture. This position was a direct report to the CIO and Fully remote.

  Leadership
    
      Team Size: 4 Developers, 1 PM, 7 Offshore. All team members are remote.
      Managed Executive and Customer Relationships
      Defined and Executed Organizational Strategy
      Recruited and maintained skilled resources for organization.
      Managed yearly software development internship program
      Traveled to various U.S. locations as needed (25% of time)
    
  
  Technical
    
      Largest Application: Mission Critical SOX-compliant internally developed Field Capture solution, used by over 700 field construction crews across the U.S.
      Acted as Technical Expert on Tech Stack and helped explore and implement new technologies
      Led Change Management process while rolling out Applications
      Implemented DevOps/CICD, Agile Scrum, GitFlow, and QA Processes.
      Defined and documented all architecture and SDLC for the organization
      Administered various systems such as Azure DevOps, Sharepoint Online, Power Automate, PowerBI, and Azure.
    
  
  Financial
    
      Forecasted and Managed Organizational Budget
      Onboarded and Managed Offshore Development Partner
      Monitored and controlled cloud and on-prem infrastructure costs
    
  


  * April 2016 – October 2017
    Team Lead / Senior Developer at Worldwide Machinery, Houston, TX
      
  Led Internal Software Development Team
  Focused on full-stack development using .NET, MS SQL, and React.
  Delivered Mission-critical Asset Management Software (desktop, mobile, and web)
  Reported to Co-Owner of Company


  * December 2011 – February 2016
    Technical Lead (IT Developer / Engineer III) at HP Inc., Houston, TX
      
  Designated as Technical Lead over mission-critical third level support tool (10k+ users)
  Focused on Full-Stack Development using .NET, MS SQL, and JavaScript
  Gained exposure to Big Data (Hadoop / HP Vertica) and BI/Analytics (PowerBI / Tableau)


  * August 2007 – December 2011
    Software / Systems Engineer at X-Fab, Texas, Lubbock, TX
      
  Full-Stack developer focused on .NET, MS SQL, C++, and Perle development.
  Acted as Red Hat Linux administrator
  Focused on 3-tier web application and hardware monitoring development
  Introduced Subversion source control to company



  * May 2007 – July 2007
    Software Development Intern at Texas Tech / X-Fab, Texas, Lubbock, TX
      
  Full-stack development internship focused on C++ and .NET development.
  Completed two projects during internship: A statistical analysis application and a file format conversion program..
  Was sponsored by X-Fab in conjunction with Texas Tech University



EDUCATION
  * May 2005 – December 2009
    Texas Tech University, Lubbock, TX Bachelor of Science in Computer Engineering

ACHIEVEMENTS
  * , , 

    2021: Promoted to Director of Operations Technology
2021: Nominated to MEARS Group Innovator Team (Company Think-Tank)
2021: Nominated to Quanta Services Leadership Academy
2020: Promoted to Senior Manager of Operations Technology
2013: Promoted to Technical Lead (IT Developer/Engineer III)
TECHNOLOGIES
  * , , 

    Processes: DevOps, CICD, Agile Scrum, Kanban, GitFlow, Matrix Org 
.NET: C#, VB.NET, ASP.NET API/MVC, Blazor, UWP 
JavaScript: React, Node.js, NPM, Electron, Angular, TypeScript, SvelteKit
Scripting: Python 
Web: HTML, CSS, Tailwind
DB: SQL Server, Sqlite3, Oracle 
Reporting: SSRS, PowerBI 
Cloud: Azure, AWS, Netlify 
Servers: Windows Server, Linux (Ubuntu/Debian) 
Tooling: Azure DevOps, GitHub, Visual Studio/VS Code, SSMS, DBeaver 
Data: Boomi, SSIS 
Other: Sharepoint Online, PowerApps, PowerAutomate, Twilio, JWT, Swagger
Novice: Docker, Kubernetes, Java, Spring Boot, C++, C, Django, Perle
